There is a clear indication that the writing contained within this manuscript are of a sensitive nature. The author took great time and pains in constructing it, and also in concealing its content.

Reintroduced to the general public in 1912[Brumbaugh 1978] , it has since been famed as containing an unbreakable code. A great many historic people and groups have toiled over its pages, trying to understand the true nature and purpose of this manuscript. WW Code breakers [Hogenboom, Melissa (June 21, 2013)."Mysterious Voynich manuscript has 'genuine message'". BBC News. RetrievedJune 8, 2016.] 

Currently, we have generally settled on the likelyhood that it contains depictions of plants that don't exist[Shailor][
[34] Schwerdtfeger, Elias (2004). "Voynich Information Browser". Retrieved June 11, 2016]
Other theories have suggested it was simply a fantastical rendition whos only goal was to gain profit amongst the rich and wealthy, which given its brightly colored history[table of ownership] has no doubt brought wealth to those yielding to the highest bidder.
A language or codex that has no record of etimology or origin has been alphabetized [Reeds, Jim (September 7, 1994). "William F. Friedman's Transcription of the Voynich Manuscript" (PDF). AT&T Bell Laboratories. pp. 1–23. Retrieved June 8, 2016] and pitted against large databases of known languages from the time period, with no matches found to explain the context of the mysteries contained within. This has led researchers to beleive it is an invented language[Kennedy & Churchill 2004]
Amidst the fanciful pen strokes, and skillfully drawn shapes, dance rainbows, and cruedly drawn figures that have been entitled "the white ladies", who raise further questions to be tackled.
Yet while some mysteries have simply gathered dust, each generation has seen the renewed interest of many groups attempting to crack the code, and it continues to be the subject of novels and boundless speculation.
 Technology has provided us with some solid evidence that we can derive much from.
 Carbon Dating in particular has given us a very specific window of years in which the paper itself was constructed. [ Stolte, Daniel (February 10, 2011). "Experts determine age of book 'nobody can read'". PhysOrg. Retrieved June 8, 2016]
 Ink analysis has further given us a class and calibur of the types who could afford the materials needed to manifest the text.
  Yet under the microscope an all too familiar trait found in most, if not all manuscipts has been rarely observed with but 1 or two exceptions: Evidence of mistakes. Even rare instances of 

What we are now left with is a manuscript containing a over 200 pages of a flawlessly written unknown language, each letter carefully constructed without hesitation of the pen stroke, without marks of stray ink blots, without sign that the author stopped to think. Carefully drawn and illustrations of plantlike shapes we can find no fossil or reference of in any known account. Maps of an unknown world, and star charts under a different sky. All sprinkled with childish and cruedly drawn depictions of rainbows and women, who seem to have no place among the scholarly appearance of this now bewildering document.