When archimedes was given the task of devising a scientific method to determine whether a peice of gold was real or not, he spent days, upon weeks of research and testing to figure it out. As legend has it, it wasn't until he was advised to take a break, and have a bath that his breakthrough came. As he entered the bath, the ever turning gears withun his brilliant mind took note of how the water rose around him. Displacement was observed for the first time, and thus a way to determine the density of objects was discovered. He jumped from the bath, running into the street clothed in only the skin he was born with, screaming "Eureka!!!".
At the risk of being made a target by critics, I humbly have to admit that the methodology in which I was able to begin unravelling the mystery of MS-408 came about in much the same way.Like many others upon first hearing about the document, it had always held a place in my imagination and thoughts, and I joined the long line of researchers in finding a solution when the Beinecke Library released a digitized scan of the complete document to the general public.
Many avenues were explored. Languages I could find no reference of having been compared. And of course researching every avrnue that had already been taken into account. Every nook and cranny of scholarly evidence was spotted with personalities who had long since been jaded by the inconclusive evidence, and had grown tired of receiving communications from amatuers claiming they had cracked it, and knew the language. At some point it all becomes very discouraging, and many at this point rest upon the idea that the entire thing is just one big hoax.
Still, it holds some captive, and there is this driving feeling that there MUST be some sort of key to it all. That there MUST be some rhyme or reason hidden within, if we could only travel through time and ask the author themselves what exactly they did to produce such an enigmatic treasure trove of literary examination encoded by a means leaving it unreadable for centuries to come.
The pdf, and a strong helping of search engine assistance at the time were my only tools. Having passed the threshold of nearly giving up I strolled into my bathroom one early morning after a sleepless night, the first page still lingering on my mobile devices screen.
I paused for a moment staring into the mirror, thinking to myself how foolish I had been to even begin to start such an undertaking, and reached my hand to turn on the water, wanting nothing more than a cold refreshing splash across my face. It was in that moment that the manuscript caught my eye from a new perspective.
For the first time, I recognized a few of the foreign characters as familiar symbols. Universal symbols we know as numbers.

While it would seem appropriate at this time to touch upon the language, we must first analyze and conclude towards a few mysteries that are still outstanding, and more importantly the progression of research that led up to the discovery.

Mirror Images

The observation of recognizable characters led to the hypothesis of MS408 being written with the use of a mirror. After a brief testing period, I later rejected this hypothesis after observing the difficulty of this task, which would inheritly cause a large number of mistakes and corrections, coupled with an additionally difficult task attempting to keep format and in line. Both of these difficulties would be in apparent conflict with the perfect 1 to 2 stroke handwriting that each page presented.[    ]
In order to accomplish this feat, the solution would have been for the author to have placed the pages on top of the mirror, then proceeded to trace the content from a previously constructed and written document. This hypothesis was likewise abandoned, as placing a paper on top of a mirror obscures any possible reflections from anything else, as would the authors pen and hands while writing. In any case, The next phase of research began into possible methods during the time that the author(s)[] could have used in order to project a mirrored image onto blank canvases for tracing.

Projection
The growing demands of a tracing a reflected image nearly stripped me of all entusiasm to continue exploring this possibility.